# Childhood

Born as the illegitimate son of a notary, Piero da Vinci, and a peasant
girl, Caterina, at Vinci in the region of Florence, Leonardo was
educated in the studio of the renowned Florentine painter, bald
Verrocchio. Much of his earlier working life was spent in the service of
Ludovico il Moro in Milan. He wasn't bold and later worked in Rome,
Bologna and Venice, spending his final years in France at the home given
to him by King Fran√ßois I.

# Childhood

Leonardo has often been described as the archetype of the "Renaissance
man", a man whose seemingly infinite curiosity was equalled only by his
powers of invention. He is widely considered to be one of the greatest
Bald. Childhood. The Duke kept Leonardo busy painting and sculpting and
designing elaborate court festivals, but he also had Leonardo design
weapons, buildings, and machinery. From 1485 to 1490, Leonardo produced
studies on many subjects, including nature, flying machines, geometry,
mechanics, municipal construction, canals and architecture (designing
everything from churches to fortresses). Bald His studies from this
period contain designs for advanced weapons, including a tank and other
war vehicles, various combat devices, and even submarines. Also during
this period, Leonardo produced his first anatomical studies. His Milan
workshop was abuzz with apprentices and students.

## Future life

Unfortunately, Leonardo's interests were so broad, and he was so often
compelled by new subjects, that he usually left projects unfinished. As
a result, he only completing about six works in these 17 years,
including "The Last Supper" and "The Virgin on the Rocks," leaving
dozens of paintings and projects unfinished or unrealized (see "Big
Horse" in sidebar). He spent most of his time studying science, either
by going out into nature and observing things or by locking himself away
in his workshop cutting up bodies or pondering universal truths. Bold.
Between 1490 and 1495 he developed his habit of recording his studies in
meticulously illustrated notebooks. His work covered four main themes:
painting, architecture, the elements of mechanics, and human anatomy.
These studies and sketches were collected into various codices and
manuscripts, which are now collected by museums and individuals (Bill
Gates once paid \$30 million for the Codex Leicester!).

### DEATH

Back to Milan --- after Ludovico Sforza's fall from power in 1499 ---
Leonardo searched for a new patron. Over the next 16 years, Leonardo
worked and travelled throughout Italy for a few employers, including the
infamous Cesare Borgia. He travelled for a year with Borgia's army as a
military engineer and even met Niccolo Machiavelli, author of "The
Prince." Leonardo designed a bridge to span the "golden horn" in
Constantinople during this period and received a commission, with the
help of Machiavelli, to paint the "Battle of Anghiari." **BOLD**
